LOGISIM 2.6.1 ADDS GERMAN, ENHANCES LIBRARIES

Logisim, a graphical design and simulation tool for logic circuits, is now at version 2.6.1. The biggest feature in this release is a new German translation composed by Uwe Zimmerman of Uppsala University. The release also repairs some minor bugs in the recently released 2.6.0.

Besides the German translation, the release includes several minor enhancements to the library components. In the Gates library, you can now associate a label with any gate added into the circuit. In the Arithmetic library, a new Bit Finder component has been added, and all existing components have been enhanced so that a tool tip will be displayed when the mouse hovers over an input or output. In the I/O library, several components provide more color configuration options.

Educational institutions around the world use Logisim as an aid to teaching about digital logic and computer architecture. As a Java application, Logisim can run on most major operating systems. Read more about Logisim at http://www.cburch.com/logisim/, and download it from SourceForge.net at http://sourceforge.net/projects/circuit/.

CHANGE LOG

Feature: A German translation of the GUI elements is now included.

Feature: Added a Label and Label Font attribute for all components in the Gates library except Constant.

Feature: Added the Bit Finder component into the Arithmetic library.

Feature: Added tool tips for each input and output of all Arithmetic components.

Feature: Memory image files generated by a text editor or other file can include comments: Logisim ignores the '#' character and the following characters on that line.

Feature: Added Off Color and Background attributes for the I/O library's Seven-Segment Display and Hex Digit Display.

Feature: Added Color and Background attributes for the I/O library's TTY component.

Feature: Enhanced the splash screen and "About" dialog to give credit to other team members.
 
Bug fix: Circuit statistics were not computed recursively as intended (it was done correctly in 2.5.1).

Bug fix: The Bit Adder's output bit width was one bit too small when the maximum possible count was a power of 2.
 
Bug fix: With a multiplexer/demultiplexer/decoder selected, pressing 1 through 4 alters the number of select bits, but 5 does not work properly.
 
Bug fix: If you select a wire and drag one endpoint in the same direction the wire is facing, then it shows just a fragment of the resulting longer wire being selected. 
