GUI

Feature: Added the option of switching the "explorer pane" between viewing the "toolbox" (the project's circuits and libraries that has appeared in the explorer pane in previous versions) and a simulation hierarchy.

Feature: A Greek translation of the GUI elements was added. (The documentation is not yet translated.)

Feature: During a rectangular selection, the rectangle is drawn with a light blue, and components that will be affected are indicated with a slate-blue outline.

Feature: The attribute table contains a header line describing which attributes are being edited.

Feature: Added a "Close" item to the Window menu, which closes the current window. The "Close" item in the File menu continues to close the current project; its shortcut is now Control-Shift-W.

Feature: Added 250%, 300%, 400% to the options for zooming.

Design change: Removed option to disable the project toolbar.

Bug fix: In moving a component whose output is connected to itself, it was possible for an exception to cause the program to hang.

Bug fix: The "Second radix when wire poked" preference was ignored - the "First radix" was displayed twice when the wire was poked.

Bug fix: Enabled the "-clearprops" command-line option for clearing all application proferences. (The previous version worked with "-clearprefs", but it was described as "-clearprops" in the "-help" text and in the documentation. Both now work.)


CORE

Feature: Saving project files is more cautious, creating a backup before starting to write to disk and recovering from the backup if for some reason the save is detected to fail (whether nothing has been written to the file or an error has occurred while saving).

Feature: Individual subcircuit instances can have a label, in addition to the "shared label" that is displayed in the center of each instance of a subcircuit.

Bug fix: When simulation is disabled, selecting Tick Once will still cause a tick once the simulation is stepped.


LIBRARIES

Feature: Added a Wiring library containing transistor, transmission gate, power and ground components. Also, the splitter, pin, probe, tunnel, clock, pull resistor, and bit extender were moved into the Wiring library from the Base library, and constant was moved into the Wiring library from the Gates library.

Feature: In the Wiring library, splitters can be configured to show which bits correspond to each end using the new Appearance attribute. It uses this new appearance by default.

Feature: In the Wiring library, the pop-up menu associated with splitters includes menu items for distributing the bits in ascending or descending order.

Feature: In the Gates library, the gates (except Controlled Buffer and Controlled Inverter) have a new Output Value attribute so that a gate can output a floating value when the result is true or when the result is false. This is useful for building a wired-or and wired-and connections.

Feature: In the Plexers library, an enable input was added to the multiplexer, demultiplexer, and decoder.

Feature: In the Plexers library, the priority encoder received a new Disabled Output attribute.

Feature: In the I/O library, the LED Matrix's Input Format attribute can be changed after the matrix is added into the circuit.

Design change: Deleted the "Legacy" library for loading files saved in versions 1.x of Logisim.

Design change: For the Memory library's Random component, a reset when the seed is 0 computes a new initial seed based on the current time. (It previously reset to the initial seed for the current simulation.)

Design change: All components except Constant now use the included GIF icons rather than Java code.

Bug fix: In the Wiring library, changing the label for a Tunnel would not immediately affect the values propagated through the circuit.

Bug fix: In the Wiring library, Pull Resistors did not respect "printer view," which is meant to be black and white.



COMBINATIONAL ANALYSIS

Feature: In the Combinational Analysis module, the user can select between using a sum of products or a product of sums.

Feature: The Combinational Analysis module supports apostrophes (as in "x'" for NOT x).

Design change: The Combinational Analysis module's expression pane uses a larger font size than previously.

Bug fix: Some instances of exceptions that would occur upon doing "Analyze Circuit" a second time were removed.

Bug fix: In the Karnaugh maps drawn by the Combinational Analysis module, each implicant was indicated by a red rectangle, but they were meant to use varied colors.

Bug fix: The "Set As Expression" button would sometimes not be disabled when pressed (particularly when the previous expression was the same except for spaces).